# Covid19-Drug-Discovery-Project
The goal of this project was to create a regression model that can accurately predict the pIC50 value for a given compound given its chemical properties as an input to determine its potential effectiveness in treating COVID-19 in patients. pIC50 is the negative log of the IC50 value when converted to molar and is a measurement of potency of a drug. Values greater than 6.0 are considered effective and values over 9.0 are considered very effective drugs. IC50 is a quantitative measure that indicates how much of a particular inhibitory substance e.g., drug is needed to inhibit, in vitro, a given biological process or biological component by 50%. This dataset consists of 2 different files for a potential drug against the COVID-19 virus. The original file consists of only a SMILES (simplified molecular-input line-entry system - chemical notation that allows the representation of a compound in a way that can be used by a computer) notation and pIC50 constant against the COVID-19 virus for a chemical compound. The second one consists of engineered features using the pubchempy library of Python. This library helps to access the PubChem data. PubChem is a database of millions of chemical compounds. This library was used to fetch the properties of the compounds using their SMILES representation. The dataset is made publicly available by the Government of India as a part of their Drug Discovery Hackathon. There are some potential drugs against the COVID-19 virus in this dataset as suggested by the hackathon organizers. Necessary EDA was done in order to extract meaningful insight. A function was created to return the highest correlated pairs greater than 0.7 in descending order. The NaN values were dropped as there were only 4 rows with NaN values. The distribution of the target variable pIC50 was shown to see the spread. The categorical variables were converted into numerical variables with Label Encoding because most of the ML algorithms perform better and produce better accuracy with numerical variables. The ‘Charge’ column was dropped since all values were 0. Only one weight measurement was required, hence others were dropped. Few other formula notations were dropped as they were not relevant for regression tasks. Columns not correlated with other attributes were dropped. Attributes with high correlations were dropped. A custom function was designed to get the cross validation score on dataset. The function was comparing algorithms: Linear Regression, Lasso, Ridge, Random Forest, XGBoost, SVR, AdaBoost and Bagging Regressor on the dataset with mean squared error, standard deviation on MSE and execution time. Each of these models was tested. Polynomial Regression was also tested. The coefficient of determination was plotted. XGBoost seemed to be the best performing Model. It may be of value to researchers if for each model they can extract those features that are ranked as most important so they can further investigate as to why that chemical property is strongly associated with increased or decreased drug effectiveness for COVID-19. Permutation feature importance ranking was implemented and a custom function was created to return any number k features in descending order of importance for a given regression model. An example for the best performing model of XGBoost was shown.
